--Q1 Find the names of all students who are friends with someone named Gabriel.

--A1

select distinct name
from(
select ID
from Friend, Highschooler
where Friend.ID1 = Highschooler.ID and name = 'Gabriel') H, Friend, Highschooler
where Friend.ID1 = Highschooler.ID and H.ID = Friend.ID2


--Q2 For every student who likes someone 2 or more grades younger than themselves, return that student's name and grade, and the name and grade of the student they like.

--A2

select G.name, G.grade, Highschooler.name,Highschooler.grade
from(
select grade,name,ID, ID2 as LIKES
from Highschooler, Likes
where Highschooler.ID = Likes.ID1) G,Highschooler

where G.LIKES = Highschooler.ID and G.grade - Highschooler.grade >=2;


--Q3 For every pair of students who both like each other, return the name and grade of both students. Include each pair only once, with the two names in alphabetical order.


--A3

select Highschooler.name as Name, Highschooler.grade, G.name,G.grade
from(
select grade,name,ID, ID2 
from Highschooler, Likes
where Highschooler.ID = Likes.ID1
order by name
)G,Likes,Highschooler


where G.ID = Likes.ID2 and G.ID2 = Likes.ID1 and Highschooler.ID = Likes.ID1 
and Length(G.name)<= Length(Highschooler.name)


--Q4 Find all students who do not appear in the Likes table (as a student who likes or is liked) and return their names and grades. Sort by grade, then by name within each grade.

--A4

select distinct name, grade
from Highschooler, Likes
where Highschooler.ID not in (select ID1 from Likes) and Highschooler.ID not in (select ID2 from Likes)



--Q5 For every situation where student A likes student B, 
--but we have no information about whom B likes (that is, B does not appear as an ID1 in the Likes table), return A and B's names and grades.


--A5

select G.name, G.grade, Highschooler.name, Highschooler.grade
from(
select grade,name,ID, ID2 
from Highschooler, Likes
where Highschooler.ID = Likes.ID1 and Likes.ID2 not in (select ID1 from Likes)) G,Highschooler

where Highschooler.ID = G.ID2


--Q6 Find names and grades of students who only have friends in the same grade. Return the result sorted by grade, then by name within each grade.


--A6 -- Unfinished

select *
from(
select distinct name1,ID1,grade1
from(
select Group1.ID as ID1,Group1.name as name1,Group1.grade as grade1,
Highschooler.ID as ID2, Highschooler.name as name2, Highschooler.grade as grade2
from(

select ID, name, grade,ID2
from Highschooler, Friend
where Highschooler.ID = Friend.ID1 ) Group1,Highschooler

where Highschooler.ID = Group1.ID2) Group2
where grade1<>grade2) Group3



--Q7 For each student A who likes a student B where the two are not friends, find if they have a friend C in common (who can introduce them!). 
--For all such trios, return the name and grade of A, B, and C.




--A7 










